
MeshPay Cryptography — Documentation Summary

Encryption Architecture
MeshPay uses a hybrid RSA-OAEP + AES-GCM encryption scheme to secure every payment instruction
transmitted over the Bluetooth mesh.

Why Hybrid Encryption
RSA-2048 can encrypt a maximum of ~245 bytes due to its mathematical constraints.
A PaymentInstruction payload (VPAs, amount, timestamp, nonce, device ID, signature) exceeds this limit.
To work around this, the payload is encrypted with a fresh AES-256 key, and only that key is encrypted
with the receiver's RSA public key — a pattern known as hybrid encryption, identical to what TLS uses
internally.

Why AES-GCM Over AES-CBC
AES-GCM provides authenticated encryption — it produces a 16-byte auth tag alongside the ciphertext that
is cryptographically bound to every byte of the payload. If any bit is modified in transit
(by a malicious mesh node or transmission error), decryption throws AEADBadTagException immediately.
No corrupted data is ever returned.

AES-CBC offers no such guarantee — a flipped bit produces silently corrupted plaintext with no error.
In an offline mesh where payment packets hop through untrusted intermediate devices, silent corruption
is unacceptable.

Per-Transaction Key Generation
A fresh AES-256 key and a 12-byte random nonce are generated for every transaction using SecureRandom.
This means compromising one transaction's key reveals nothing about any other, providing forward secrecy
at the transport layer.

Encrypted Payload Structure
Each transmitted bundle contains:

json
{
  "encryptedKey": "<RSA-OAEP encrypted AES key>",
  "iv":           "<12-byte GCM nonce>",
  "ciphertext":   "<AES-GCM encrypted PaymentInstruction>",
  "tag":          "<16-byte GCM auth tag>"
}

Security Guarantees
Guarantee	            Mechanism
Confidentiality	        AES-256-GCM encryption
Integrity	            GCM auth tag — tamper causes immediate exception
Key security	        RSA-2048-OAEP wrapping
Forward secrecy	        Fresh AES key + nonce per transaction